Are you newly natural or just wanting to shake up your natural routine, then you definitely need to learn about the LOC / LCO method! These methods are pretty much the golden standard when it comes to retaining moisture in your hair.  

What is the LOC / LCO Method?
LOC stands for Liquid, Oil and Cream and dictates in which order you need to apply these products. In other words when you are moisturizing your hair, you start with a liquid, then continue with an oil and finish with a cream. The individual products that you use are pretty much up to you and whatever works for your hair. Below we will dive a bit deeper into the different steps.


Liquid / Leave-in Conditioner 
So the first step in this routine is liquid or a leave-in conditioner. The purpose of this step is to really soak up moisture, so make sure you actually use a moisturizing conditioner. If the conditioner that you apply at this stage does not reach far on the moisture scale, then regardless of what oil or cream you use afterwards to seal your curls and kinks, it is still going to appear dry. 


The good news is that there are so many leave-in conditioners to choose from. We are fans of the ones that do not have parabens, silicones and mineral oils to keep it as natural as possible. However, we also know that some actually prefer conditioners with mineral oil, because it tends to work better on their hair. Some even claim that they just use water as the first step. Whatever you do, pick one that is moisturizing for your hair!


Oil 
Let’s continue with the next step; oil. We need this second step to provide a barrier for our freshly hydrated strands and to prevent moisture leaving your hair. The most ideal oil for your hair is highly dependent on your hair porosity.  If you’re unsure of your porosity, check out our article The Ultimate Guide to High Porosity Hair. 


If you have low porosity hair, you are better off with lighter oils like argan oil or avocado oil. High porosity hair loses moisture quickly, so if you fall into the latter category, you better use a heavier oil like castor oil or olive oil. If you have normal porosity hair, jojoba oil and grapeseed oil are good options. You can also create your own mixture of oils and use that instead.  On Youtube you can find plenty of videos of DIY oils you can put in your hair. 



Cream
Now you’re ready for the final step, this is where it gets creamy. You guessed it!  Cream is your final and outer layer and primary sealant. If oil is equivalent to your soldiers, then cream is the fortress protecting your soldiers. Even though cream functions as a sealant, make sure it is nourishing for your hair. You can either purchase a hair cream or make one yourself using mango butter or shea butter and then mixing it with oil. 

linear-grad , smaller FigCaption, hero created & fills horiz space - LCO

//shadow on images, margins sections 

//    background-color: rgb(167 173 220);

// #ffc0cb
//style="display:flex; justify-content: center;
                 align-items:center;position: absolute;
                 background-color:  rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.518) ;
         
                  text-align: center; min-width: 240px; width:50%; min-height:100px; height: 25%;   text-align: center;   color: white; font-size: 1.7rem; letter-spacing: 3px; font-family: Annie Use Your Telescope , serif;background-color: rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.688); ">
                    Low effort maintenance with great results</h3>


